Netflix Data Exploration and Visualization

Link to Solution.pdf on Google drive

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Xidm3JE5mjZlTS4fpHyC-69AxWPIxdKC/view?usp=sharing


1)

Problem Statement : Using the Netflix.csv data we can give Netflix data driven / quantitatitve insights on what they've done
 so far. Based on what we get to know from this data analysis (frequency, correlation etc) we can let them know statistically
 / graphically what is better for their business in the future based on a number of factors.
 
For example: If we observe that TV shows in United States for the last 30 years are mostly haivng a length of 1 season then
if a new TV show is launched it would be most apt to give it a length of 1 season as Netflix has been doing this most often
and they would only repeat a practise that works for them and is successful and not something that doesn't work. Same with
choosing the type of series to launch in a particular geography. The insights would have been very pointed / accurate if we
would have also received a column describing the success rate for each TV show / Movie launched.


Analysing basic metrics : There are basically 12 rows giving information about each show starting from 'show_id' to 'description'


1) we can use dataframe.['column_name'].describe() to get a descrpitive statistical summary for each columns to begin with.
2) Use the dataframe.count() to get no of non NA cells for each column
3) Use dataframe.nunique() to count the number of unique values for each column. We can clearly see from this that there
   are only two types of released content on Netlfix.
4) Use dataframe.['country'].value_counts() and it lets us know that United States is the country with the most releases
5) nt[nt['type'] == 'TV Show']['duration'].value_counts() to see that for TV Shows released globally '1 season' is the
   most frequent length of the TV show and 17 seasons the least frequent.
6) Using the describe on dataframe['release_year'] we can know that of the total content added most was released between
    2013 and 2021 (approx 75%). The mean release year was 2014
7) We can know in a particular country what type of content is a particular country and with what frequency
    nt[nt['country'] == 'United States']['listed_in'].value_counts()
8) There were 6131 movies added vs 2676 TV shows by netflix
9) For TV shows we can see that December was the most frequent launch month, followed by July and September
10) For directors we check for TV shows that are Reality TV and then see that we get only one director name as for most of
    them the director name isn't given in the dataset

   



2. Observations on the shape of data

1) Shape of data : 8807 rows and 12 columns .One row corresponding to each id and 12 columns giving details about each
   release on Netflix
2) Data types of all attributes : object and except column 'release_year' which is of type int






6. Insights based on Non-Graphical and Visual Analysis:

1. Comments on the range of attributes.

1. show_id : 8807 unique values. Range from : s1 to s8807
2. type : 2 unique values which are Movie and TV Show
3. date_added : min value : Timestamp('2008-01-01 00:00:00')
                max value : Timestamp('2021-09-25 00:00:00')
4. release_year : min : 1925 and max : 2021

other values are alphanumeric and we can know the unique count of them using nunique but cannot comment on the range


2. Comments on the distribution of variables and the relationship between them:

Date added : Not evenly distributed. Skewed towards range of 2017 to 2021
Rating : Not evenly distributed. 4 rating account for most values
Duration : Not evenly distributed. One outlier value '1 sesaon' with very high count


Comments for each univariate and bivariate plots:

Since I could not plot the bivariate plot hence only commenting on univariate plots

Date added: Clearly visible from plots most of the content was added between 2017 and 2021
Rating: TV-MA, TV-14 and R and the most frequent ratings and acoount for the most content
Duration : 1 season is the most common range followed by 2 seasons and 90/91 minutes.
Release year: mean is 2014 and 50% of the moves were released between 2013 and 2019


7. Business insights:

I make a presumption that what netflix only repeats what is wokring for them and discards what isn'that

1) United stated is the most important country to do business followed by India. US owing to the per capita income and population
   and India owing to its massive population
2) Netflix as an OTP platform ash gained momentum post 2017 and since then has been releasing content quite aggressively.
3) Netflix is targeted towards adults and not kids as can be seen from the ratings of the releases. TV-MA is most frequent.
4) Long content length is too boring. 1 season is the best length followed by 90/91 mins standalone content.


8. Recommendations:

1) Duration : Focus must be on 1 season and 90/91 mins. For seasons it must be either 1,2 or 3 and unless the director is very sure
   not more than 3 series.
2) Release month : The last quarter (October to December) of each year is most suited for new launches as each year most launches
   happen that year.
3) Geography : Focus should be on English countries as the top three target countries US, India and UK are English speaking.
4) United states (listed_in) : For US the documentaries and standup up comedy should be focused upon for new content
5) Directors : The following directors should be engaged in decreasing order of precedence :
   Rajiv Chilaka, Raúl Campos, Jan Suter, Marcus Raboy, Suhas Kadav , Jay Karas
6) Cast :  The follwing cast should be engaged in decreasing order of precedence :
   David Attenborough
   Vatsal Dubey, Julie Tejwani, Rupa Bhimani, Jigna Bhardwaj, Rajesh Kava, Mousam, Swapnil
   Samuel West
   Jeff Dunham
   David Spade, London Hughes, Fortune Feimster
   